READ ME file for IN2018_V06_stills GIT repository

Author: Franzis Althaus

Background:
A survey of the seamounts south of Tasmania on board of the Australian Marine National Facility Vessel Investigator imagery of the seafloor was collected on transects using a towed camera system.
The imagery consist of Video and stereo still images. A selection of the stereo stills are processed to generate a quadrat of measured size overlaid on the image.

The data is structured into seamounts (Map Locations), transects (operations) and images that are geolocated in space. 
The geoocation details for each image are in a separate data table.

Image annotation data:
The area within quadrats is annotated for (1) percent cover of substrate types with the matrix-forming coral (esp. Solenosmilia variabilis) being of particular interest,
and for (2) counts of individuals of indicator taxa for 'VME' (Vulnerable Marie Ecosystems).

Percent Cover annotations:
Annotations for (1) are done in TransectMeasure (TM) software that throws 5 random point per square metre into the quadrat, and each point is given a label that identifies the substrate type.
Types and coding used: 
L1_CAT 		L2_CAT														L2_Code
Biota		Cnidaria - Stony corals - Enalopsammia (live)				SC-ENLP
			Cnidaria - Stony corals - Solenosmilia (live)				SC-SOL
			Cnidaria - Stony corals - Madrepora (live)					SC-MAD
Substrate	Consolidate - Biogenic - Coral reef - Enalopsammia (dead)	SU-ENLP
			Consolidate - Biogenic - Coral reef - Solenosmilia (dead)	SU-SOL
			Consolidate - Biogenic - Coral reef - Madrepoa (dead)		SU-MAD
			Unconsolidate - Biogenic - Coral Rubble						SU-BCOR
			Unconsolidate - Biogenic - Barnacle plates					SU-BBAR
			Unconsolidate - Biogenic - other							SU-BOTH
			Consolidate - Rock											SU-ROK
			Consolidate - Boulder										SU-BOL
			Consolidate - Cobbles										SU-COB
			Consolidate - Biogenic - other								SU-CONBIO
			Unconsolidate - Pebble - gravel								SU-PEBGRAV
			Unconsolidate - Sand/mud									SU-SAMU
Unscorable	Unscorable													NS

In addition each image has an overview description that is (should be) flagged in the data as 'user defined'

Raw percent cover data: 
TM raw output data set concatenates point annotations of substrate types within images and a separate annotation for the entire image. 
 needs to be tidied into a per image % cover for each substrate type


(2)	VARS data extract: species counts for the same (or a subset) of these images – again these need to be tidies up before joining them to the image data. – I have not extracted this data set yet as annotations are still ongoing.

